I. God, who at sundry times and in diverse manners spake in time past unto the fathers
by the prophets, hath in these last days spoken unto us by his son, whom he hath appointed
heir of all things, by whom also he made the worlds.
Who being the brightness of his glory and the express image of his person, and upholding
all things by the word of his power, when he had by himself purged our sins, sat down
on the right hand of the majesty on high, being made so much better than the angels,
as he hath by inheritance obtained a more excellent name than they.
For unto which of the angels said he at any time, Thou art my son, this day have I begotten
thee.
And again, I will be to him a father, and he shall be to me a son.
And again, when he bringeth in the first begotten into the world, he sayeth, And let all the
angels of God worship him.
And of the angels, he sayeth, Who maketh his angels spirits, and his ministers a flame
of fire.
But unto the sun he sayeth, Thy throne, O God, is for ever and ever.
A scepter of righteousness is the scepter of thy kingdom.
Thou hast loved righteousness, and hated iniquity.
Therefore God, even thy God, hath anointed thee with the oil of gladness above thy fellows.
And thou, Lord, in the beginning hast laid the foundation of the earth, and the heavens
are the works of thine hands.
They shall perish, but thou remainest, and they shall all wax old, as doth a garment.
And as a vesture shalt thou fold them up, and they shall be changed, but thou art the
same, and thy years shall not fail.
But to which of the angels said he at any time, Sit on my right hand until I make thine
enemies thy footstool?
Are they not all ministering spirits sent forth to minister for them who shall be heirs
of salvation?
Chapter 2 Therefore we ought to give the more earnest
heed to the things which we have heard, lest at any time we should let them slip.
For if the word spoken by angels was steadfast, and every transgression and disobedience received
a just recompense of reward, how shall we escape, if we neglect so great salvation,
which at the first began to be spoken by the Lord, and was confirmed unto us by them that
heard him?
God also bearing them witness, both with signs and wonders, and with diverse miracles, and
gifts of the Holy Ghost, according to his own will.
For unto the angels hath he not put in subjection the world to come, whereof we speak.
But one in a certain place testified, saying, What is man, that thou art mindful of him,
or the son of man, that thou visitest him?
Thou madeest him a little lower than the angels, thou crownedest him with glory and honour,
and didst set him over the works of thy hands.
Thou hast put all things in subjection under his feet.
For in that he put all in subjection under him, he left nothing that is not put under
him.
But now we see not yet all things put under him.
But we see Jesus, who was made a little lower than the angels for the suffering of death,
crowned with glory and honour, that he by the grace of God should taste death for every
man.
For it became him, for whom are all things, and by whom are all things, in bringing many
sons unto glory, to make the captain of their salvation perfect through sufferings.
For both he that sanctifieth, and they who are sanctified, are all of one, for which
cause he is not ashamed to call them brethren, saying, I will declare thy name unto my brethren,
in the midst of the church will I sing praise unto thee.
And again I will put my trust in him, and again behold I and the children which God
hath given me.
For as much then as the children are partakers of flesh and blood, he also himself likewise
took part of the same, that through death he might destroy him that had the power of
death, that is, the devil, and deliver them who, through fear of death, were all their
lifetimes subject to bondage.
For verily he took not on him the nature of angels, but he took on him the seed of Abraham.
Wherefore in all things it behoved him to be made like unto his brethren, that he might
be a merciful and faithful high priest in things pertaining to God, to make reconciliation
for the sins of the people.
For in that he himself hath suffered being tempted, he is able to succor them that are
tempted.
Partakers of the heavenly calling, consider the apostle and high priest of our profession
Christ Jesus, who was faithful to him that appointed him, as also Moses was faithful
in all his house.
For this man was counted worthy of more glory than Moses, inasmuch as he who hath builded
the house hath more honor than the house.
For every house is builded by some man, but he that built all things is God.
And Moses verily was faithful in all his house, as a servant, for a testimony of those things
which were to be spoken after.
But Christ as a son over his own house, whose house are we, if we hold fast the confidence
and the rejoicing of the hope, firm and to the end.
Wherefore, as the Holy Ghost sayeth, to-day if ye will hear his voice, harden not your
hearts.
As in the provocation in the day of temptation in the wilderness, when your fathers tempted
me, proved me, and saw my works forty years.
Wherefore I was grieved with that generation, and said, They do all way err in their heart,
and they have not known my ways.
So I swear in my wrath, they shall not enter into my rest.
Take heed, brethren, lest there be in any of you an evil heart of unbelief in departing
from the living God.
But exhort one another daily, while it is called to-day, lest any of you be hardened
through the deceitfulness of sin.
For we are made partakers of Christ, if we hold the beginning of our confidence steadfast
unto the end, while it is said, to-day if ye will hear his voice, harden not your hearts,
as in the provocation.
For some, when they had heard, did provoke.
How be it not all that came out of Egypt by Moses?
But with whom was he grieved forty years?
Was it not with them that had sinned, whose carcasses fell in the wilderness?
And to whom swear he that they should not enter into his rest, but to them that believe
it not?
So we see that they could not enter in because of unbelief.